A MIPS R3000 microprocessor on an FPGA 13 February 2002 1
A MIPS R3000 microprocessor on an
FPGA
Charles Brej
1  Introduction
The aim of the project was to implement a complete processor that is still widely used
today. Of the many potential processors that were considered the one that was chosen
was a MIPS R3000 microprocessor due to its simple instruction encodings. The R3000
microprocessor is not just a processor as it also includes cache, memory management
and a coprocessor interface. (It is also capable of handling exact exceptions)
1.1  History of RISC
When the ﬁrst processors and Instruction Set Architectures (ISAs) were created pro-
gramming was very difﬁcult and so complex instructions that looked more like high
level languages were added to each ISA family. To allow old software to run on newer
computers the instruction sets were expanded and became more and more complex. To
add to the complexity issue memory prices were very high and to ﬁt a program into a
very small space it was necessary to create instructions with varying lengths. Also
memory was a lot faster than the processor and so keeping all variables in memory was
quite logical. In a completely different direction to the CISC movement of increasingly
complex instruction sets the RISC adopted a totally different approach. By keeping all
instructions the same size decoding becomes simple. Having a large register bank
decreases memory accesses which are increasingly slow compared to the CPU speed
on modern computers. Implementing only simple and common operations the proces-
sor speed can be increased and chip area can be decreased. Having a much simpler base
architecture allows the CPU to implement other speed increasing methods much more
simply for example pipelining.
1.2  Load Store Architecture
MIPS microprocessor instructions only allow registers or small immediates to be oper-
ands of operations. CISC on the other hand often has instructions which use memory
stored data as operands. This makes the execution harder. For example the 8086
instruction ‘CMP AX, ES:[SI+02]’ ﬁrstly requires 2 to be added to SI and the result to
be added to ES shifted by 4 this creating an effective address to load a 16 bit word (pos-
sibly non-word aligned so multiple loads are required) from memory then compare it to
AX and write the ﬂags created by the comparison to the ﬂags register for use by the
next conditional jump instruction. This scheme is difﬁcult to implement and the
instruction goes several times through the ALU. MIPS microprocessor instructions
only go through the ALU once and never after a memory access. If an operand from
memory is required it is loaded into the register bank ﬁrst and only then used in subse-
quent operations. This allows the creation of a very simple architecture which is easy to
A MIPS R3000 microprocessor on an FPGA 13 February 2002 2
pipeline. A typical MIPS microprocessor uses a ﬁve stage execution pipeline as shown
in Figure 1 on page 2.
In a ﬁve stage pipeline there are two memory ports: one for instruction fetch and one
for data accesses. To deal with this either two separate memories can be used or swap
memory access between the two ports. This is called Harvord architecture.
1.3  History of pipelining
Pipelining is a method of getting more than one instruction to execute simultaneously.
By dividing the path that the instruction has to go through in the CPU into segments
and placing latches at the beginning of each segment instructions will take several
clocks to execute instead of one. But as MIPS microprocessor instructions only visit
each segment once they only occupy one segment allowing other instructions to come
straight after them and occupy other segments.
There are problems that arise with pipelining. Firstly if an ALU instruction writes to a
register that is required in the next instruction the data in the register bank is not yet
updated when the second instruction requests it as the data is now at the end of the
ALU stage. T