XAPP462 (v1.1) January 5, 2006 www.xilinx.com 1
© 2003, 2006 Xilinx, Inc. All rights reserved. XILINX, the Xilinx logo, and other designated brands included herein are tradema rks of Xilinx, Inc. 
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Summary Digital Clock Managers (DCMs) provide advanced clocking capabilities to Spartan™-3 FPGA 
applications. DCMs optionally multiply or divide the incoming clock frequency to synthesize a 
new clock frequency. DCMs also eliminate clock skew, thereby improving system performance. 
Similarly, a DCM optionally phase shifts the clock output to delay the incoming clock by a 
fraction of the clock period. The DCMs integrate directly with the FPGA’s global low-skew clock 
distribution network.
This application note applies to the Spartan-3 and Spartan-3L families. For information specific 
to the Spartan-3E family, see DS312
, Spartan-3E FPGA Family: Complete Data Sheet.
Introduction DCMs integrate advanced clocking capabilities into the Spartan-3 global clock distribution 
network. Consequently, Spartan-3 DCMs solve a variety of common clocking issues, especially 
in high-performance, high frequency applications:
• Multiply or Divide an Incoming Clock Frequency or synthesize a completely new 
frequency by a mixture of clock multiplication and division. 
• Condition a Clock, ensuring a clean output clock with a 50% duty cycle.
• Phase Shift a clock signal, either by a fixed fraction of a clock period or by precise 
increments.
• Eliminate Clock Skew, either within the device or to external components, to improve 
overall system performance and to eliminate clock distribution delays.
• Mirror, Forward, or Rebuffer a Clock Signal, often to deskew and convert the incoming 
clock signal to a different I/O standard—for example, forwarding and converting an 
incoming LVTTL clock to LVDS.
• Any or all the above functions, simultaneously.
Application Note: Spartan-3 and Spartan-3L FPGA Families
XAPP462 (v1.1) January 5, 2006
Using Digital Clock Managers (DCMs) in 
Spartan-3 FPGAs
R
Table  1:  Digital Clock Manager Features and Capabilities
Feature Description DCM Signals
Digital Clock Managers (DCMs) per device • 4, except in XC3S50
• 2 in XC3S50
All
Digital Frequency Synthesizer (DFS) Input Frequency 
Range*
1 MHz to 280 MHz CLKIN
Delay-Locked Loop (DLL) Input Frequency Range* 18 MHz to 280 MHz** CLKIN
Clock Input Sources • Global buffer input pad
• Global buffer output
• General-purpose I/O (no deskew)
• Internal logic (no deskew)
CLKIN
Frequency Synthesizer Output Multiply CLKIN by the fraction (M/D) 
where M={2..32}, D={1..32}
• CLKFX
• CLKFX180
2 www.xilinx.com XAPP462 (v1.1) January 5, 2006
Document Overview
R
Document 
Overview
This application note covers an assortment of topics related to Digital Clock Managers, not all 
of which are relevant to every specific FPGA application.
The “DCM Functional Overview” section provides a brief introduction to the DCM and its 
functions. Similarly the “DCM Primitive” section describes all the connection ports and 
attributes or constraints associated with a DCM. Likewise the “DCM Wizard” and the “VHDL 
and Verilog Instantiation” sections demonstrate the various methods to specify a DCM design.
The “DCM Clock Requirements” and the “Input and Output Clock Frequency Restrictions” 
sections explain the frequency requirements on the DCM clock input and the various DCM 
clock outputs. Similarly, the “Clock Jitter or Phase Noise” section highlights the effect jitter has 
on output clock quality.
Finally, the “Eliminating Clock Skew”, “Clock Conditioning”, “Phase Shifting – Delaying the 
Clock by a Fraction of a Period”, “Clock Multiplication, Clock Division, and Frequency 
Synthesis”, and “Clock Forwarding, Mirroring, Rebuffering” sections illustrate various 
applications using the DCM block.
Clock Divider Output Divide CLKIN by 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 
4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 
12, 13, 14, 15, or 16
CLKDV
Clock Doubler Out