A Hardware and Software Monitor for High-Level System-on-Chip Veriﬁcation
Mohammed El Shobaki and Lennart Lindh
M¨alardalen Real-Time Research Centre
Department of Computer Engineering
M¨alardalen University, V¨asteras, SWEDEN
mei@mdh.se, llh@mdh.se
Abstract
Veriﬁcation of today’s Systems-on-Chip (SoC) occur at
low abstraction-levels, typically at register-transfer level
(RTL). As the complexity of SoC designs grows, it is increas-
ingly important to move veriﬁcation to higher abstraction-
levels. Hardware/software co-simulation is a step in this
direction, but is not sufﬁcient due to inaccurate processor
models, and slow hardware simulation speeds. System-
level monitoring, commonly used for event-based soft-
ware debugging, provides information about task schedul-
ing events, inter-task communication and synchronisation,
semaphores/resources, I/O interrupts, etc.
We present MAMon
1, a monitoring system that can
both monitor the logic-level and the system-level in
single/multiprocessor SoCs. A small hardware probe-unit
is integrated in the SoC design and connects via a parallel-
port link to a host-based monitoring tool environment. The
probe-unit collects all events in the target system in run-
time, and timestamps them with a resolution of 1
/AM s. The
events are then stored in a database on the host for fur-
ther processing. The paper will describe MAMon and how
it works for software and hardware monitoring. The paper
also describe how system-level monitoring can be achieved
non-instrusively by using a hardware-based Real-Time Ker-
nel.
1 Introduction
Already today many System-on-Chip (SoC) applica-
tions are hard to verify and optimise. The complexity is
increasing and to verify a whole system using computer
model simulations is time consuming, and some times
impossible due to inaccurate models. It is also difﬁcult to
model the real-world (i.e. the environment) around the SoC.
1Multipurpose/Multiprocessor Application Monitor
Often a bug in a system is traced from a high-level view
of the system, commonly referred to as the system-level,
downto the register-transfer level (RTL) (or even lower
levels if things are really bad). In this paper we refer to
the system-level as to denote both the process/task-level
information in software, and the behavioural-level inform-
ation in hardware. As ﬁgure 1 illustrates, the number of
events occuring in a system are fewer at the system-level,
which motivates a top-down debugging strategy.
Target
System
System-Level
RTL
Gate-Level
Few events/s
Many events/s
Figure 1. Events in a target system
Observability into SoC designs is today mostly sup-
ported for RTL veriﬁcation. As SoC designs tend to
increase in size and complexity, the veriﬁcation process
need also to take place at the system-level. Support for
system-level veriﬁcation already exist for the software
part of a SoC, where a common technique is the use of
software monitors. These monitors are typically found in
RTOS (Real-Time Operating System) development tool
environments ([10, 1]), and provides the developer with
process-level information such as task-scheduling events
(start/stop, block/resume, taskswitch, etc.), inter-process
communication events (e.g. send and receive messages),
synchronisation and resource utilization (CPUs, sema-
phores, I/O), external interrupts, etc. For this information to
be extracted it is often required to instrument the software
with special monitor instructions or processes, which later
can be removed after the validation phase. The drawbacks
of instrumentation is that it utilizes target resources such
as memory space and execution time from the CPUs.
Also, when the instrumentation is removed, the system
may change behaviour due to timing differences. This
problem, commonly referred to as the probe effect ([6, 9])
causes many timing- and synchronisation-related errors in
concurrent/distributed systems and real-time systems [12].
In this paper we present MAMon, a hardware-based
monitoring system t