 
 
 
 
 
R&D White Paper 
WHP 112 
May 2005 
Hardware for arithmetic coding  
P.J. Bleackley 
Research & Development 
 BRITISH BROADCASTING CORPORATION 


BBC Research & Development
White Paper WHP 112
Hardware for Arithmetic Coding
Peter J. Bleackley
Abstract
This white paper describes a ﬁxed probability prototype of a VHDL implementation of an arithme-
tic coder for Dirac video coding. The technical background of arithmetic coding is also described.
Additional key words: video coding, Dirac, arithmetic coding, hardware
c⃝BBC 2005. All rights reserved.
White Papers are distributed freely on request.
Authorisation of the Chief Scientist is required for
publication.
c⃝BBC 2005. Except as provided below, no part of this document may be reproduced in any
material form (including photocoping or storing it in any medium by electronic means) without
the prior written permission of BBC Research & Development except in accordance with the
provisions of the (UK) Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1998.
The BBC grants permission to individuals and organisations to make copies of the entire
document (including this copyright notice) for their own internal use. No copies of this document
may be published, distributed or made available to third parties whether by paper, electronic or
other means without the BBC’s prior written permission. Where necessary, third parties should
be directed to the relevant page on BBC’s website at http://www.bbc.co.uk/rd/pubs/whp for a
copy of this document.
BBC Research & Development
White Paper WHP 112
Hardware for Arithmetic Coding
Peter J. Bleackley
1 Introduction
Dirac is a general purpose video codec developed by BBC Research and Development, and released
as open source so as to enable it to be used and modiﬁed freely by any interested parties. It uses
motion compensation, wavelet coding, and arithmetic coding to obtain compression and image
quality comparable with the best video codecs currently available.
Dirac has so far been implemented as software, written in C++. However, for many video
applications it is desirable for a hardware implementation to be available. As a ﬁrst stage to
developing such hardware, an implementation of the arithmetic coding stage in VHDL is being
developed. This white paper describes a ﬁxed-precision prototype of this arithmetic coder.
Section 2 of this document describes the principles of arithmetic coding. Sections 3 and 4
describe the architecture of a ﬁxed precision encoder and decoder respectively. Section 5 discusses
the results of synthesizing this coder.
2 Arithmetic coding background
2.1 Theory
Consider a message consisting of a string of symbols. For a symbol sk which occurs at a given
position in the message with a probability pk, then the information content of the symbol is
− log2(pk). This is the minimum number of bits needed to encode the symbol. In general it will
not be an integer.
Compression schemes such as Huﬀman coding, which encode each symbol with an integer
number of bits, will in general only be optimal when pk = 2 −q, where q is an integer, for all
symbols. Otherwise there will be an overhead of typically 1 /2 bit/symbol in encoding the message,
as the number of bits in the encoded symbol will be rounded up to the nearest greater integer.
To improve on this, it is necessary to encode the message in such a way that a given bit in the
encoded stream may represent data from more than one symbol.
Consider the open interval [0 , 1). For an alphabet of symbols sk, where 0 ≤ k < n , which occur
with probabilities pk
n−1∑
k=0
pk = 1
The interval may therefore be subdivided in proportion to the probabilities of the various
symbols. Each symbol may therefore be represented by the interval [ ck−1, ck), where
ck =
k∑
i=0
pk
1
is the cumulative probability of all symbols up to and including sk, and we deﬁne c−1 = 0. To
represent a second symbol sl, the interval may be further subdivided into the intervals [ ck−1 +
pkcl−1, ck−1 + pkcl). The length of this inter