DS512 September 16, 2009 www.xilinx.com 1
Product Specification
© 2006-2009 Xilinx, Inc. Xilinx, Inc. XILINX, the Xilinx logo, Virtex, Spartan, ISE and other designated brands included herein  are trademarks of Xilinx in the United 
States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners
Introduction
The Xilinx LogiCORE™ IP Block Memory Generator
core is an advanced memory constructor that generates
area and performance-optimized memories using
embedded block RAM resources in Xilinx FPGAs.
Available through the CORE Generator™ software,
users can quickly create optimized memories to
leverage the performance and features of block RAMs
in Xilinx FPGAs.
Features
• Generates Single-port RAM, Simple Dual-port 
RAM, True Dual-port RAM, Single-port ROM, and 
Dual-port ROM 
• Performance up to 450 MHz 
• Supports data widths from 1 to 1152 bits and 
memory depths from 2 to 9M words (limited only 
by memory resources on selected part)
• Supports configurable port aspect ratios for dual-
port configurations and read-to-write aspect ratios 
in Virtex®-6, Virtex-5 and Virtex-4 FPGAs
• Optimized algorithms for minimum block RAM 
resource utilization or low power utilization
• Configurable memory initialization
• Supports individual write enable per byte in 
Virtex-6, Virtex-5, Virtex-4, Spartan®-6, and
Spartan-3A/XA DSP with or without parity
• Optimized VHDL and Verilog behavioral models 
for fast simulation times; structural simulation 
models for precise simulation of memory 
behaviors
• Selectable operating mode per port: WRITE_FIRST, 
READ_FIRST, or NO_CHANGE
• Supports built-in Hamming Error Correction 
Capability (ECC) for Virtex-6 and Virtex-5 devices, 
and associated error injection pins in Virtex-6 to 
insert single and double bit errors
• Supports pipelining of DOUT bus for improved 
performance in specific configurations
• Smaller primitive configurations in Spartan-6 
devices with the introduction of new 9K 
primitives.
• Lower data widths for Virtex-6 devices in SDP 
mode.
• Choice of reset priority for output registers 
between priority of SR (Set Reset) or CE (Clock 
Enable) in Spartan-6 and Virtex-6 families.
• Asynchronous reset in Spartan-6 devices.
Block Memory Generator v3.3
DS512 September 16, 2009 Product Specification
LogiCORE™ IP Facts
Core Specifics
Supported 
Device Family(1)
1. See Table 1, page 2 for more details about supported de-
vices.
Virtex-6, Virtex-5, Virtex-4,
Spartan-6, Spartan-3E/XA, Spartan-3/XA,
Spartan-3A/3AN/3A DSP
Block RAM Varied, based on core parameters
DCM None
BUFG None
IOBs/ 
Transceivers
None
PPC None
IOB-FF/TBUFs None
Provided with Core
Documentation Product Specification
Migration Guide(2)
2. The Migration Guide provides  instructions for converting
designs that contain instances of either Legacy LogiCORE
IP 6.x Single or Dual Port Block Memory, or older versions
of LogiCORE Block Memory Generator to blocks of the lat-
est version of the LogiCORE Block Memory Generator.
Design File 
Formats NGC Netlist
Design Tool Requirements
Xilinx 
Implementation 
Tools
ISE® v11.3
Simulation
Mentor Graphics® ModelSim®: v6.4b and above
VHDL Structural
Verilog Structural
VHDL Behavioral(3)
Verilog Behavioral(3)
3. Behavioral models do not pr ecisely model collision behav-
ior. See "Simulation Models," page 31 for details.
Synthesis XST
Support
Provided by Xilinx, Inc.
Block Memory Generator v3.3
2 www.xilinx.com DS512 September 16, 2009
Product Specification
Overview
The Block Memory Generator core uses embedded Block Memory primitives in Xilinx FPGAs to extend
the functionality and capability of a single primit ive to memories of arbi trary widths and depths.
Sophisticated algorithms within the Block Memory Generator core produce optimized solutions to pro-
vide convenient access to memories for a wide range of configurations. 
The Block Memory Generator has two fully independent ports that access a shared memory space. Both
A and B ports have a write and a read in