marca - McAdam’s RISC Computer Architecture
Implementation Details
Wolfgang Puﬃtsch
February 2, 2007
1 General
• 16 16-bit registers
• 16KB instruction ROM (8192 instructions)
• 8KB data RAM
• 256 byte data ROM
• 75 instructions
• 16 interrupt vectors
2 Internals
The processor features a 4-stage pipeline:
• instruction fetch
• instruction decode
• execution/memory access
• write back
This scheme is similar to the one used in the MIPS architecture, only execution
and write back stage are drawn together. For our architecture does not support
indexed addressing, it does not need the ALU’s result and can work in parallel,
having the advantage of reducing the possible hazards.
Figure 1 shows a rough scheme of the internals of the processor.
2.1 Branches
Branches are not predicted and if executed they stall the the pipeline, leading
to a total execution time of 4 cycles. The fetch stage is not stalled, the decode
stage however is stalled for two cycles to compensate that.
1
Figure 1: Internal scheme
2.2 Instruction fetch
This stage is not spectacular: it simply reads an instruction from the instruction
ROM, and extracts the bits for the source and destination registers.
2.3 Instruction decode
This stage translates the bit-patterns of the opcodes to the signals used inter-
nally for the operations. It also holds the register ﬁle and handles access to it.
Immediate values are also constructed here.
2.4 Execution / Memory access
The execution stage is the heart and soul of the processor: it holds the ALU,
the memory/IO unit and a unit for interrupt handling.
2.4.1 ALU
The ALU does all arithmetic and logic computations as well as taking care of
the processors ﬂags (which are organized as seen in table 1).
Bit 15 Bit 0
P I N V C Z
Table 1: The ﬂag register
Operations which need more than one cycle to execute (multiplication, di-
vision and modulo) block the rest of the processor until they are ﬁnished.
2.4.2 Memory/IO unit
The memory/IO unit takes care of the ordinary data memory, the data ROM
(which is mapped to the addresses right above the RAM) and the communication
2
to peripheral modules. Peripheral modules are located within the memory/IO
unit and mapped to the highest addresses.
The memories (the instruction ROM too) are Altera speciﬁc; we decided
not to use generic memories, because Quartus can update the contents of its
proprietary ROMs without synthesizing the whole design. Because all memories
are single-ported (and thus fairly simple) it should be easy to replace them with
memories speciﬁc to other vendors.
We also decided against the use of external memories; larger FPGAs can
accommodate all addressable memory on-chip, so the implementation overhead
would not have paid oﬀ.
Accesses which take more than one cycle (stores to peripheral modules and
all load operations) block the rest of the processor until they are ﬁnished.
Peripheral modules The peripheral modules use a slightly modiﬁed version
of the SimpCon interface. The SimpCon speciﬁc signals are pulled together to
records, and the words which can be read/written are limited to 16 bits. For
accessing such a module, one may only use load and store instructions which
point to aligned addresses.
UAR T The built-in UART is derived from the sc uart from Martin Sch¨ oberl.
Apart from adapting the SimpCon interface, an interrupt line and two bits for
enabling/masking receive (bit 3 in the status register) and transmit (bit 2) in-
terrupts. In the current version address 0xFFF8 (-8) correspond to the UART’s
status register and address 0xFFF A (-6) to the wr data/rd data register.
2.4.3 Interrupt unit
The interrupt unit takes care of the interrupt vectors and, of course, the trig-
gering of interrupts. Interrupts are executed only if the global interrupt ﬂag is
set, none of the other units is busy and the instruction in the execution stage is
valid (it takes 3 cycles after jumps, branches etc. until a new valid instruction
is in that stage).
Instructions which cannot be decoded as