Altera Corporation  4–1
May 2006
4. SOPC Builder Components
Introduction This chapter describes in detail what an SOPC Builder component is. 
SOPC Builder components are individual design blocks that SOPC 
Builder uses to integrate a larger system module. Each component 
consists of a structured set of files within a directory.
The files in a component directory serve the following purposes:
■ Defines the hardware interface to the component, such as the names 
and types of I/O signals.
■ Declares any parameters that specify the structure of the component 
logic and the component interface.
■ Describes a configuration wizard GUI for configuring the 
component in SOPC Builder.
■ Provides scripts and other information SOPC Builder needs to 
generate the component HDL and integrate the component into the 
system module.
■ Contains component-related information, such as software drivers, 
necessary for development steps downstream from SOPC Builder. 
f For details on creating custom components, see the Developing SOPC 
Builder Components chapter in Volume 4 of the Quartus II Handbook. For 
details on the SOPC Builder component editor, see the Component Editor 
chapter in Volume 4 of the Quartus II Handbook.
Sources of 
Components 
There are several sources for components, including the following:
■ The Quartus® II software, which includes SOPC Builder, installs a 
number of components. 
■ Altera® development kits, such as the Nios® II Development Kit, 
provide SOPC Builder components as features. 
■ Third-party developers provide SOPC Builder Ready components, 
including component directories and documentation on how to use 
the component. 
■ You can package your own HDL files into a new, custom component, 
using the SOPC Builder component editor. 
1 While it is possible to write component files manually, 
Altera strongly recommends you use the SOPC Builder 
component editor to create custom components, for reasons 
of consistency and forward compatibility. 
QII54004-6.0.0
SRAM Controller for
Altera DE2/DE1 Boards
Version 1.0
1 Core Overview
The SRAM Controller communicates with the 256K × 16 asynchronous CMOS static RAM (SRAM)
chip on Altera’ s DE2/DE1 Boards. It provides a convenient byte-addressable interface for using the
SRAM chip on the DE2/DE1 boards.
2 Functional Description
By mapping Avalon® Switch Fabric signals to the SRAM chip, the SRAM Controller enables users
to read or write the SRAM from a master device (such as the Nios ® II processor) as a normal mem-
ory operation. The Avalon Switch Fabric handles addressing automatically and 8, 16 and 32-bit
read/write transfers are supported.
Because the data inside the SRAM Controller are registered, for 8-bit or 16-bit data, there will be
two clock cycles of latency for a read operation and one clock cycle of latency for a write operation.
For 32-bit data, the Avalon Switch Fabric automatically breaks the data into two 16-bit words and
transfers them one by one. As a result, there will be a delay of ﬁve clock cycles for reading 32-bit
data and a delay of two clock cycles for writing 32-bit data to the SRAM.
Below shows two example timing diagrams for reading and writing 32-bit data. Figure 1 shows writ-
ing 0xAAAABBBB and 0xCCCCDDDD to SRAM address0x00000000 and 0x00000004 , and Figure2
shows how 0xAAAABBBB is read from the SRAM.
Address
WriteData31 0–
Acknowledge
Clock
AAAABBBB
SRAM_DQ AAAA BBBB CCCC DDDD
CCCCDDDD
00000000 00000004
Figure 1. Timing diagram of writing 32-bit data to the SRAM
The SRAM Controller supports a clock frequency of 50 MHz, which is readily available on the
DE2/DE1 Boards.
Altera Corporation - University Program
May 2007
1
SRAM C ONTROLLER FOR ALTERA ’S DE2/DE1 B OARDS Version 1.0
Address
Acknowledge
Clock
BBBBBBBB
SRAM_DQ BBBB AAAA
AAAABBBB
00000000
ReadData AAAAXXXX
Figure 2. Timing diagram of reading 32-bit data from the SRAM
For a detailed description of the SRAM chip on the DE2/DE1 Boards see the SRAM Datasheet.
3 Instantiating the Core in SOPC 