Java Dust: How Small Can Embedded Java Be?
James Caska
Muvium
jamescaska@Muvium.com
Martin Schoeberl
Department of Informatics and Mathematical
Modeling
T echnical University of Denmark
masca@imm.dtu.dk
ABSTRACT
Java is slowly being accepted as a language and platform for em-
bedded devices. However, the memory requirements of the Java
library and runtime are still troublesome. A Java system is con-
sidered small when it requires less than 1 MB, and within the em-
bedded domain small microcontollers with a few KB on-chip Flash
memory and even less on-chip RAM are very common. For such
small devices Java is a clearly challenging. In this paper we present
the combination of the Java compiler Muvium for microcontrollers
with the tiny soft-core Leros for an FPGA.
To the best of our knowledge, the presented embedded Java sys-
tem is the smallest Java system available. The Leros processor con-
sumes less than 5% of the logic cells of the smallest FPGA from
Altera and the Muvium compiler produces a JVM, including the
Java application, that can execute in a few KB ROM and less than
1 KB RAM. The Leros processor is available in open-source and
the Leros port of Muvium is freely available.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
C.3 [ Special-Purpose and Application-Based Systems ]: Real-
time and embedded systems; D.3.4 [ Programming Languages]:
Processors— Compilers
1. INTRODUCTION
There is a clear trend in embedded computing that divides com-
puting devices into two basic categories, Linux enabled and sub-
Linux systems. The range and cost point of Linux enabled devices
is growing very quickly and for those devices Java J2SE running
on Linux is a compelling option. For sub-Linux systems, appli-
cation speciﬁc microcontroller systems, there are fewer choices
for running Java and the requirements of real world applications
change quite substantially. To compete effectively in this segment
a Java compiler for embedded microcontrollers must handle ex-
tremely limited resources, work without an operating system, inter-
face directly with the real-world, and compete effectively with the
C language. Performance and code-density are perhaps the most
critical factors for an embedded processor. Due to its interpretive
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are
not made or distributed for proﬁt or commercial advantage and that copies
bear this notice and the full citation on the ﬁrst page. To copy otherwise, to
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speciﬁc
permission and/or a fee.
JTRES 2011 September 26-28, 2011, York, UK
Copyright 2011 ACM 978-1-4503-0731-4I/11/09 ...$10.00.
nature the performance of Java has always been questioned. Main-
stream JVMs employ just-in-time technologies to address this. For
embedded systems, just-in-time compiling is hardly possible due to
the memory consumption of the compiler. However, since the ap-
plications we target are dedicated static applications, ahead-of-time
compilation is the approach to reduce resource consumption.
This ahead-of-time compilation approach is used by Muvium to
target Java to highly resource constrained embedded devices. To
enable Java for small microcontrollers we impose several restric-
tions to Java: only a small subset of the Java library (JDK) is avail-
able and in the default conﬁguration of Muvium, Java integers are
represented as 16-bit words.
In this paper we present a minimal embedded Java system con-
sisting of the tiny microcontroller Leros [7] and the ahead-of-time
compiler Muvium [2], which is optimized for processors with min-
imal memory resources. To the best of our knowledge, this is the
smallest Java system available today — a ﬁrst step toward bringing
Java into very small systems and building up Java Dust.
2. RELATED WORK
The Squawk VM [8] is a platform for wireless sensors, targeting
the embedded processor ARM9. Squawk is mostly wr