Leros: A Tiny Microcontroller for FPGAs
Martin Schoeberl
Department of Informatics and Mathematical Modeling
Technical University of Denmark
masca@imm.dtu.dk
Abstract—Leros is a tiny microcontroller that is optimized for
current low-cost FPGAs. Leros is designed with a balanced logic
to on-chip memory relation. The design goal is a microcontroller
that can be clocked in about half of the speed a pipelined on-chip
memory and consuming less than 300 logic cells.
The architecture, which follows from the design goals, is a
pipelined 16-bit accumulator processor . An implementation of
Leros needs at least one on-chip memory block and a few hundred
logic cells.
The application areas of Leros are twofold: First, it can be used
as an intelligent peripheral device for auxiliary functions in an
FPGA based system-on-chip design. Second, the very small size
of Leros makes it an attractive softcore for many-core research
with low-cost FPGAs.
I. I NTRODUCTION
In this paper we present Leros, a microcontroller that is
optimized for low-cost FPGAs. Leros is a minimalistic 16-
bit processor intended for utility functions in an FPGA based
System-on-Chip (SoC) design. The design goals of Leros are
a good balance between the number of logic cells and on-
chip memories, reasonable performance, and a high maximum
clock frequency. The last point is important for usage as utility
processor in an SoC to not be the frequency bottleneck of the
whole design.
These design goals are achievable by a pipelined accumula-
tor architecture with additional directly addressable registers
in an on-chip memory for local variables. The on-chip data
memory is shared for those registers and general data. With
an additional on-chip memory for the instructions only two
memory blocks are needed and the pipeline can execute one
instruction per clock cycle. For short programs the instruction
memory can even be built out of logic cells (LC).
Leros is named after the greek island Leros, 1 where it has
been designed during an enjoyable vacation. Leros is available
under open-source and if you use Leros in your application or
research, consider a visit to the nice island Leros and sending
a postcard from there to the author.
The paper is organized as follows. Section II presents related
work. Background on the design decisions for Leros is pre-
sented in Section III. The concrete implementation is described
in Section IV, followed by an evaluation and comparison
with other FPGA microcontrollers in Section V. The paper
is concluded with Section VI.
1http://www.leros.gr/
II. R ELATED WORK
Many small processor cores for FPGAs are available and
University courses on computer architecture often contain
assignments to implement a simple pipeline in an FPGA. In the
following section we restrict the description to a few successful
cores and point out the differences of our Leros design.
PicoBlaze is an 8-bit microcontroller for Xilinx FPGAs [12].
The processor is highly optimized for low resource usage. This
optimization results in restrictions such as maximal program
size of 1024 instructions and 64 byte data memory. The beneﬁt
of this puristic design is a processor that can be implemented
with one on-chip memory and 96 logic slices in a Spartan-3
FPGA. PicoBlaze provides 16 8-bit registers and executes one
instruction in two clock cycles. The interface to I/O devices
is minimalistic in the positive sense: it is simple and very
efﬁcient to connect simple I/O devices to the processor.
The Leros approach is similar to the concept of PicoBlaze
to provide a small processor for utility functions. Compared to
PicoBlaze, Leros has fewer restrictions on program and data
size as it is a full blown 16-bit processor. Leros is optimized
to balance the resource usage between on-chip memory and
logic cells. Therefore, the LC count of Leros is slightly higher
than the one of PicoBlaze. PicoBlaze is coded at a very low-
level abstraction by using Xilinx primitive components such
as LUT4 or MUXCY . Th