ORGFX - getting started
Per Lenander, Anton Fosselius
June 4, 2012
1 Introduction
This document is intended to make it easier to get started with the ORSoC graphics accelerator component. It
contains some useful links and instructions on how to get the example code working.
1
Figure 1: Directory structure of the ORSoC graphics accelerator.
2 Project structure
The project source is structured as seen in ﬁgure 1.
3 Hardware
The rtl folder contains all the code needed to instantiate the ORGFX IP Core.
The component has 3 main wishbone interfaces:
• A wishbone slave interface for reading and writing registers. Every registry write will be added to a
circular FIFO instruction queue.
• A wishbone master interface for reading from memory (requires at least a read-only memory).
• A wishbone master interface for writing to memory (requires at least a write-only memory).
All functionality of the component is accessed by writing instructions to the registers. Only writes to the
control register can potentially start drawing operations.
Refer to the speciﬁcation document for a full explanation of all registers, their default values and how they
are used.
The component can be modiﬁed to extend the size of the instruction queue by changing the ﬁfo depth
parameter. It is not advised to change the other parameters, as their function is not fully tested.
4 Software
4.1 Drivers
ORGFX comes with a layered software driver in the sw/drivers folder.
The basic driver consists of:
orgfx . h
orgfx . c
o r g f x r e g s . h
It is possible to set the base bus address of the graphics accelerator in the regs ﬁle. The orgfx.c ﬁle is the
only part of the driver that can interact with the hardware.
The extended driver (convenience functions and better surface management) consists of:
2
o r g f x p l u s . h
o r g f x p l u s . c
The extended driver is required for most of the advanced API. Memory is managed statically in the driver,
so the driver must be modiﬁed if support for a larger number of surfaces is desired.
There are four sets of advanced API that all build on the functionality of the basic and the extended driver:
orgfx 3d . h
orgfx 3d . c
o r g f x t i l e s e t . h
o r g f x t i l e s e t . c
o r g f xb i t m a pf o n t . h
o r g f xb i t m a pf o n t . c
o r g f x v e c t o rf o n t . h
o r g f x v e c t o rf o n t . c
These supply convenience functions for doing more complex operations in a small number of function calls
(such as drawing a 3D mesh). Most of these should be used with the output of the utilities described below.
4.2 Examples
In addition to the drivers, the sw folder contains examples and utils. The examples contain a few sample
implementations with some basic functionality. The examples can be built by using the supplied Makeﬁle. By
default it builds the examples for hardware (requires or32-elf- toolchain to build for OpenRISC. The Makeﬁle
assumes that the or32-elf tool bin2binsizeword is in the path).
4.3 Utilities
There are four useful utilities supplied with ORGFX: the spritemaker, meshmaker, bitfontmaker and vector
font maker programs. Build all the utilities with the Makeﬁle in the utils directory.
All the utilities take some form of input ﬁle and generates a header ﬁle containing all the information needed
for the drivers. These ﬁles also contains a function for initialization speciﬁc to the resource contained. Calling
this function creates the necessary structure that the drivers can use.
The spritemaker program takes an imageﬁlename.png and creates an output ﬁleﬁlename.png.h (the program
also support various other ﬁle formats 1).
. / spritemaker filename . < jpg /png/bmp > [ bpp=16]
The meshmaker program takes a Wavefront .obj ﬁle ﬁlename.obj and generates the ﬁle ﬁlename.obj.h.
. / meshmaker filename . obj [ bpp=16]
The bitfontmaker program takes an image containing a 256 character bitmap font where each letter is
glyphsize pixels large. Th program takes an image ﬁlename.png and generates ﬁlename font.h (supports the
sam