Wishbone B4
WISHBONE System-on-Chip (SoC)Interconnection
Architecturefor Portable IP Cores
Brought to You By OpenCores

Wishbone B4
Legal Notices and Disclaimers
Copyright Notice
This ebook is Copyright © 2010 OpenCores
General Disclaimer
The Publisher has strived to be as accurate and complete as possible in the creation of this 
ebook, notwithstanding the fact that he does not warrant or represent at any time that the 
contents within are accurate due to the rapidly changing nature of information.
The Publisher will not be responsible for any losses or damages of any kind incurred by the 
reader whether directly or indirectly arising from the use of the information found in this 
ebook.
This ebook is not intended for use as a source of legal, business, accounting, financial, or 
medical advice. All readers are advised to seek services of competent professionals in the 
legal, business, accounting, finance, and medical fields. 
No guarantees of any kind are made. Reader assumes responsibility for use of the 
information contained herein. The Publisher reserves the right to make changes without 
notice. The Publisher assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever on the behalf of the 
reader of this report.
Distribution Rights
The Publisher grants you the following rights for re-distribution of this ebook.
[YES] Can be given away.
[YES] Can be packaged.
[YES] Can be offered as a bonus.
[NO]  Can be edited completely and your name put on it.
[YES] Can be used as web content.
[NO]  Can be broken down into smaller articles.
[NO]  Can be added to an e-course or auto-responder as content.
[NO]  Can be submitted to article directories (even YOURS) IF at least half is rewritten!
[NO]  Can be added to paid membership sites.
[NO]  Can be added to an ebook/PDF as content.
[NO]  Can be offered through auction sites.
[NO]  Can sell Resale Rights.
[NO]  Can sell Master Resale Rights.
[NO]  Can sell Private Label Rights.
Back toTOC Copyright © 2010 OpenCores Page 2 / 128

Wishbone B4
Stewardship
Stewardship  for  this specification is  maintained  by  OpenCores  Organization (hereafter  
OpenCores). Questions, comments and suggestions about this document are welcome and  
should be directed to:
Richard Herveille, OpenCores Organization
E-MAIL: rherveille@opencores.org    URL: www.opencores.org
OpenCores maintains this document to provide an open, freely useable interconnect 
architecture for its own and others’ IP-cores. These specifications are intended to 
guarantee compatibility between compliant IP-cores and to improve cooperation among 
different users and suppliers.
Copyright & Trademark Release / Royalty Release / Patent Notice
Notice is hereby given that this document is not copyrighted, and has been placed into the  
public domain.  It may be freely copied and distributed by any means.  
The  name  ‘WISHBONE’  and  the  ‘WISHBONE  COMPATIBLE’  rubber  stamp  logo  are  
hereby placed into the public domain (within the scope of System-on-Chip design, System-
on-Chip fabrication and related areas of commercial use).  The WISHBONE logo may be  
freely used under the compatibility conditions stated elsewhere in this document.
This specification may be used for the design and production of System-on-Chip (SoC)  
components without royalties or other financial obligations to OpenCores.
The author(s) of this specification are not aware that the information contained herein, nor 
of products designed to the specification, cause infringement on the patent, copyright, 
trademark or trade secret rights of others.  However, there is a possibility that such 
infringement may exist without their knowledge.  The user of this document assumes all 
responsibility for determining if products designed to this specification infringe on the 
intellectual property rights of others.
Disclaimers
In no event shall OpenCores or any of the contributors be liable for any direct, indirect, 
incidental, consequential, exemplary, or special damages (including