Technical Brief
Implementing IEEE 1588v2 for use 
in the mobile backhaul
For most, the migration to an all-Ethernet or all-IP 
network will be a gradual process as network operators 
endeavour to maximise the lifespan of their existing 
TDM assets. However, the pace is quickening with 
the development of the IEEE 1588v2 standard. This 
standard enables the backhaul network to migrate to 
all-Ethernet, which provides much-required bandwitdth 
at a far lower cost-per-bit. It is of significant interest 
to network operators seeking to grow their revenue 
by capitalising on bandwidth-hungry applications like 
mobile broadband, music and video downloads. This 
document provides a brief overview of IEEE 1588v2 
and looks at how you can characterise devices that will 
implement the standard.

Contents
Maintaining Sync using IEEE1588v2 3
Propagation Delay Measurement Mechanisms  4
Synchronisation 4
Establishing the Master-Slave Hierarchy 4
Synchronising Ordinary and Boundary Clocks 5
Topologies 9
Hierarchical Topology 9
Linear Topology 9
Multiply Connected Topology 10
Transport of PTP Messages 10
PTP over UDP over IPv4 over Ethernet 11
PTP over UDP over IPv6 over Ethernet 11
PTP over IEEE 802.3/Ethernet 12
PTP Message Formats 12
Testing and Introducing Impairments 19
Two-way Timing Protocol, PDVs and Wander 20
Introduction
Although Ethernet has been the technology of choice for a range on LAN and WAN applications for decades, 
using it in the mobile backhaul network presents a major challenge. Here, accurate synchronisation of base 
stations to nanoseconds accuracy is critical to minimise service disruptions and eliminate dropped connections 
as calls move between adjacent cells. Highly accurate synchronisation also ensures that the radio spectrum is 
not spread into the adjacent channels. Plus, without stringent phase synchronisation, the multiple signals in 
LTE’s multiple-input/multiple-output (MIMO) architecture can simply cancel one another out. And this is where 
IEEE1588v2 comes in. 
IEEE1588v2 (also known as Precision Time Protocol, PTP) is an industry-standard protocol that enables 
the precise transfer of frequency and time to synchronise clocks over packet-based Ethernet networks. It 
synchronises the local slave clock on each network device with a system Grandmaster clock and uses traffic 
time-stamping, with sub-nanoseconds granularity, to deliver the very high accuracies of synchronisation 
needed to ensure the stability of base station frequency and handovers. Timestamps between master and slave 
devices are sent within specific PTP packets and in its basic form the protocol is administration-free.
Of course, the precision and performance of the IEEE 1588v2 protocol is based on the precision of the 
timestamp. The timestamps of incoming and outgoing packets clearly need to be recorded and assessed to 
ensure synchronisation of master and slave devices. Differences in time and frequency between clocks and 
subsequent equipment corrections need to be evaluated, while clocks must be measured to ensure they are 
within their specified limits. Further, delays and drifts in sync and their effect on the transfer of timing through 
the network need to be considered too. 
Here, we examine the various methods you can use to characterise and measure the precision of timestamp 
synchronisation, as well as the accuracy of clocks, network devices and topology, before deploying equipment 
in an operational network.
2
Maintaining Sync using IEEE1588v2
In a packet transport system, clocks communicate with each other over the communication network using PTP .  
All clocks, whether master or slave, lead back to – and ultimately derive their time from – the ‘Grandmaster’ 
clock. There are 5 types of PTP clock devices:
Table 1 – PTP Device Types
Master and slave network devices are kept synchronized by the transmission of timestamps sent within the PTP 
messages. There are two types of message in the PTP protocol: Event Messages and General