 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LQ057Q3DC02 
Color TFT LCD Module 
(Model Number: LQ057Q3DC02) 
 
Specifications 
 
 
Spec No.: LCY-99073B 
Dated: May 31. 2002 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTICE 
 
This publication is the proprietary of SHARP and is copyrighted, with all rights reserved.  Under the 
copyright laws, no part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any 
means, electronic or mechanical for any purpose, in whole or in part, without the express written 
permission of SHARP .  Express written permission is also required before any use of this publication 
may be made by a third party. 
 
The application circuit examples in this publication are provided to explain the representative 
applications of SHARP's devices and are not intended to guarantee any circuit design or permit any 
industrial property right or other rights to be executed.  SHARP takes no responsibility for any 
problems related to any industrial property right or a third party resulting from the use of SHARP's 
devices, except for those resulting directly from device manufacturing processes. 
 
In the absence of confirmation by device specification sheets, SHARP takes no responsibility for any 
defects that occur in equipment using any of SHARP's devices, shown in catalogs, data books, etc. 
Contact SHARP in order to obtain the latest device specification sheets before using any SHARP's 
device. 
 
SHARP reserves the right to make changes in the specifications, characteristics, data, materials, 
structures and other contents described herein at any time without notice in order to improve design or 
reliability. Contact SHARP in order to obtain the latest specification sheets before using any SHARP's 
device. Manufacturing locations are also subject to change without notice. 
 
Observe the following points when using any device in this publication. SHARP takes no responsibility 
for damage caused by improper use of the devices. 
 
The devices in this publication are designed for use in general electronic equipment designs, such as: 
・Automotive auxiliary information display           
・Automotive audio visual equipment 
 
The appropriate design measures should be taken to ensure reliability and safety when SHARP's 
devices are used for equipment such as: 
・Transportation control and safety equipment(i.e., aircraft, trains, automobiles, etc.) 
・Traffic signals      ・Gas leakage sensor breakers     
・Alarm equipment      ・Various safety devices etc. 
 
SHARP's devices shall not be used for equipment that requires extremely high level of reliability, such 
as: 
・Military and space applications     ・Nuclear power control equipment     
・Medical equipment for life support 
 
Contact a SHARP representative, in advance, when intending to use SHARP's devices for any "specific" 
applications other than those recommended by SHARP . 
 
Contact and consult with a SHARP representative if there are any questions about the contents of this 
publication. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
RECORDS OF REVISION 
    ＭＯＤＥＬ Ｎｏ：ＬＱ０５７Ｑ３ＤＣ０２ 
  ＳＰＥＣ Ｎｏ ：ＬＣＹ－９９０７３ 
 NO. PAGE SUMMARY NOTE 
1999. 5.26 ＬＣＹ－９９０７３ -                - 1 st Issue 
1999. 8.30  ＬＣＹ－９９０７３A 17 Outline dimensions Changed 
2000. 4.18 ＬＣＹ－９９０７３B 13 11-1 :   
   M2.6 Tapping screw  
   → M3 Tapping screw  
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

ＬＣＹ－９９０７３B－1     
  
These specification sheets are the proprietary product of SHARP CORPORATION ("SHARP) and include 
materials protected under copyright of SHARP. Do not reproduce or cause any third party to reproduce them 
in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, for any purpose in whole or in part, without the 
express written permission of SHARP. 
 
The device listed in these specification sheets was designed and manufactured for use in general electronic 
equipment. 
 
    In case of using the device for applications such as control and safety 