THEIA Simple Shader Simulation Tutorial
Thank you very much for your interest in the project!
In this tutorial, you will set up THEIA to simulate a simple 3D scene consisting of 2 texturized
triangles. You will write a series of simple pixel shaders to get familiar with the shanding 
system.
First a little bit of background
THEIA's pixels shaders are written using the THEIA programming language. This is an 
assembly programming language consisting of a series of instructions that operate on a series 
of registers. There is no stack.
The following diagram illustrates THEIA's programming model.
Registers: THEAI has 4 types of registers.
• Internal Registers: 
Accessibility: Read-Only. 
Scope: The values of these registers can change from one pixel iteration to the 
next.
Purpose: They are special registers used by the internal GPU routines. Sometimes 
you may want to read from these registers. Examples: CREG_CAMERA_POSITION, 
CREG_RESOLUTION, CREG_PIXEL_2D_POSITION, etc.
• General purpose Registers:  
Accessibility: Read-Write. 
General 
Purpose
 Registers
(12 x 3)
R1...R12
User Code
Output Registers
(7 x 1)
OREG*
Insternal 
Registers
(N x 3)
CREG*
Constant 
Registers
(8 x 3)
C1..C7
Scope: The values of these registers can change from one pixel iteration to the 
next. This means that even though you can write any value you want, you are not 
guaranteed that this value will be persistent from one pixel iteration to the next.
Purpose: You can basically store whatever you want in these registers, but again, 
the values are only kept for the duration of your shader.
• Constant Registers:
Accessibility: Read-Write. 
Scope: The values of these registers are kept for the entire duration of the GPU 
execution. This means that if you store a value, this value is kept until you replace 
it with a different value or reset the GPU.
Purpose: Although you can use these registers as you like, the idea is to store 
constants during a special execution stage, so that you can reuse these values for 
each pixel iteration.
• Output Registers:
Accessibility: Write-Only. 
Scope:  The values of these registers can change from one pixel iteration to the 
next.
Purpose: These are special registers that indicate an output from a particular stage 
of THEIA's execution. Examples: OREG_PIXEL_COLOR, OREG_TEX_COORD1, 
OREG_TEXWEIGHT1, etc.
Instructions:
THEIA has arithmetic, logic and flow control instructions. There are two flavors of 
instructions:
Type 1: OPERATION DESTINATION SOURCE_REGISTER1  SOURCE_REGISTER2
Type 2: OPERATION DESTINATION IMMEDIATE_VALUE
There is a full list of the instructions in the Documentation section. But for now, let's just see 
some simple shaders to get a taste of how this works.
Step 1 – Download and the Simulation environment
1.1 Download the 'theia_gpu_latest.tar.gz' file from Download section of the project
web page.
1.2  Extract the tarball.
1.3 Please refer to the 'readme.txt' document under the 'test_bench' folder for
instructions on how to setup the XILINX ISE project.
1.4 Use the following paths:
SIM_DIR: project directory created by ISE Project Navigator, this is where all the
Verilog files are located.
SRC_DIR: folder that gets created after you unzip 'theia_gpu_latest.tar.gz'. Contains a copy of 
the sources, doc,examples, etc.
Step 2 – Copy the input files
2.1 Copy the input files (*.mem) from the SRC_DIR/examples/shaders/example1 to
SIM_DIR/
Creg.mem: has control register options (more on this in the documentation).
Params.mem: Scene configuration such as camera origen, light, Axis Aligned
Bounding Box position, etc. (more on this in the documentation).
Textures.mem: binary representation of the texture memory (more on this in the
documentation).
Vertex.mem: Binary representation of the triangle primitives (more on this in the
documentation).
Example 1: Default Shader
Our first example will render 2 texturized triangles. It will use the same shader as the default 
one in ROM. Let's see how it looks:
ENTRYPOINT_ADRR