Author Guidelines for the Preparation of Contributions 
to Springer Computer Science Proceedings  
Alfred Hofmann1,*
{alfred.hofmann,ralf.gerstner,anna.kramer
, Ralf Gerstner1, Anna Kramer1, and Frank Holzwarth2  
1 Springer-Verlag, Computer Science Editorial, Heidelberg, Germany 
}@springer.com 
2 Springer-Verlag, Technical Support, Heidelberg, Germany 
frank.holzwarth@springer.com 
Abstract. The abstract is a mandatory elemen t that should summarize the con-
tents of the paper and should contain at least 70 and at most 150 words.  Ab-
stract and keywords are freely available in SpringerLink. 
Keywords: We would like to encourage you to list your keywords here. They 
should be separated by commas. 
1 Introduction 
You will find here Springer’s guidelines for the preparation of proceedings papers to 
be published in one of the following series, in printed and electronic form: 
• Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS), incl. its subseries Lectu re Notes in 
Artificial Intelligence (LNAI) and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics (LNBI), and 
LNCS Transactions; 
• Lecture Notes in Business Information Processing (LNBIP); 
• Communications in Computer and Information Science (CCIS); 
• Lecture Notes of the Institut e for Computer Sciences, Social  Informatics and Tele-
communications Engineering (LNICST); 
• IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology (IFIP A ICT), for-
merly known as the IFIP Series; 
• Proceedings in Information and Communications Technology (PICT). 
Your contribution may be prepared in LaTeX or Microsoft Word. Technical Instru c-
tions for working with Springer’s style files and templates are provided in sep arate 
documents which can be found in the respective zip packages on our website. 
                                                                 
*  No academic titles or descriptions of academic positions should be included in the addresses. 
Either this information should be omi tted altogether (preferably), or it should be i ncluded in 
a footnote at the end of the first page. Information of this nature, given in the a ddresses, will 
be deleted by our typesetters. 
2 
2 Preparation of Your Paper 
2.1 Structuring Your Paper 
Affiliations. The affiliated institutions are to be listed directly below the names of the 
authors. Multiple affiliatons should be marked with superscript arabic nu mbers, and 
they should each start on a new line as shown in this document. In addition to the name 
of your affiliation, we would ask you to give the town and the country in which it is 
situated. If you prefer to include the entire postal address, then please feel free to do so. 
E-mail addresses should start on a new line and should be grouped per affiliation. 
Headings. Headings should be capitalized (i.e., nouns, verbs, and all other words  
except articles, prepositions, and co njunctions should be set with an initial capital) 
and should, with the exception of the  title, be aligned to the left. Only the first two 
levels of section headings should be numbered, as shown in Table 1. The r espective 
font sizes are also given in Table 1.  Kindly refrain from using “0” when numbering 
your section headings. 
Table 1. Font sizes of headings. Table captions should always be positioned above the tables.  
Heading level Example Font size and style 
Title (centered) Lecture Notes 14 point, bold 
1st-level heading 1 Introduction 12 point, bold 
2nd-level heading 2.1 Printing Area 10 point, bold 
3rd-level heading Run-in Heading in Bold. Text follows 10 point, bold 
4th-level heading Lowest Level Heading. Text follows 10 point, italic 
Words joined by a hyphen are subject to a special rule. If the first word can stand 
alone, the second word should be capitalized. 
Here are some examples of headings: “Criteria to Disprove Context- Freeness of 
Collage Languages”, “On Correcting the Intrusion of Tracing Non- deterministic Pro-
grams by Software ”, “A User -Friendly and Extendable Data Distribution System ”, 
“