 1
              
 
 
                               Tutorial for „ChipScope Pro“ 
 
         
  
 
 The Xilinx Tool „ChipScope Pro“ facilitates the implementation of a 
 Logic Analyser Core on the Spartan III board.  
 
 
1.1 Creation of a Logic Analyser Core  
  A „Core“ file ~.cdc can be created with    Æ Project Æ New Source. 
  The following menu appears: 
                                       
  
               Picture 1:  New Source 
   Choose „ChipScope Definition and Connection“, give a file name and activate the 
   „Add to Project“ option. Click „ Next“ to go on to the next menu: 
           
                      
  
           Picture 2: Assign to the top entity.                                               Picture 3: Summary 
           Choose the name of  the top entity and click “Finish“. 
   
   
 2 
  
  This way the „Core“ file ila_spartan3.cdc is included in the project. 
     
  
     Picture 1: Included file ila_spartan3.cdc  
  
1.2 Usage of the system clock as LA clock  
In order for the system clock to be available to the „ChipScope“ Logic Analyser, the entity must be listed under 
ports in the VHDL source code:   
SYSCLK : in bit; 
            N_SYSCLK : out bit; 
 In the architecture, for instance: 
   N_SYSCLK <= not (SYSCLK); 
In the ~.ucf file: 
NET SYSCLK LOC = P127; 
   NET N_SYSCLK LOC = P46; 
If a higher frequency is desired as circuit timing, a frequency increase up to approx. 400 MHz can be reached 
by using the DCM-module. For details see Appendix A. 
1.3 Adaptation with „Core Inserter“ 
 
 By double-clicking on the symbol of the ~.cdc file 
 , the „Core Inserter“  
is invoked and 4 menus appear: 
First  menu:  The netlist paths for input and output and the output directory 
       are specified. The device family is set to „SPARTAN 3“. 
The options: Use SRL 16s ( SeriellShift LUT 16 bit) and RPMs (relationally placed macros) 
should be activated. 
  
  
   Picture 2: Menu 1 
 
Second  menu: Disable JTAG Clock BUFG Insertion can remain inactive . 
              
  
   Picture 3: Menu 2 
Third  menu: The trigger parameters are listed according to data length and allocation. 
 3
 Trigger counters, trigger sequencer and storage qualification 
 are not needed for simple applications. 
     
  
   Picture 4: Menu 3 
 Fourth  menu: Data registration parameters such as memory depth and data width of the 
   trigger data and clock edge are specified here. 
   
  
   Picture 5: Menu 4 
 Fifth  menu: Under „Modify Connections“, the signals in the list must be assigned. 
   
  
   Picture 6: Menu 5 
The desired signal is marked in the left side table, and the channel number on the right side; 
click on „Make Connections“. 
   
 
   Picture7: Menu 5.1  Modify Connections: Clock Signals 
 
   By clicking on „Net Name“, the list of signal names is sorted alphabetically;  
   a larger set of signals can be  marked in the „Trigger Data Signals“ list.   
    
 4 
  
  
  Picture 8: Menu 5.2  Modify Connections: Trigger Data Signals 
  Click OK to return to menu 5, and from there with   
  
  to ISE main menu, by saving the settings with the same file name . 
                                                 
  
           Picture 9: saving „Core“ project  
 
 Next, the implementation is started and the Spartan 3 board is programmed. 
 During this action, you must watch to make sure that the progress bar runs steadily to the end. 
 Otherwise, close „ChipScope “ and „Impact“ (without saving) and start „Impact“ again.
 
 
1.4 Start of„ChipScope“  
After installing „ChipScope“, ISE shows a new line in the Process window: 
 
   Picture 10:  Header of „ChipScope“ 
 
  Double-click to start„ChipScope“. 
  The main window of „ChipScope Pro“ opens: 
  
  
  Picture 11: „ChipScope“ main window 
 
  First, the JTAG connection must be made:  JTAG Chain Æ Xilinx parallel Cable : 
 5
  
  
  Picture 12: Æ JTAG Chain Æ Xilinx Parallel Cable 
  In the next menu, choose Æ Xilinx Parallel IV  and click OK: 
  
  
  Picture 