The Huffman decoder Core
publish at www.opencores.org
written by René Doss
(Dossmatik GmbH/ Germany)
Version 0.1/ Date 20.12.2009
Disclaimer: 
Dossmatik is not responsible for the end product or the success of the end product in any way. The 
final sign and acceptance of any products or designs is the sole responsibility of the user. This core 
is at the moment not full tested. The actual state is alpha phase. 
Introduction:
In the follow document a decoder is described for baseline jpeg pictures. The code is written for real 
time video streaming. Some efforts  are made in optimization for speed and dynamic huffman table 
and dynamic quantization tables load. 
Language: VHDL
License:
If you use this code for simulation there are only one restrictions. You have to mention the core 
origin in your documentations and publications in a valuable position. Of cause you can send me 
also a publication.
If you fit this code into hardware components like FPGA, ASIC or analogous proceeding then is the 
license GPL. 
It is not allowed to put this code with commercial code together in hardware. If you have a problem 
with this restriction you can contact me. 
Generally explanation:
This core analyses jpeg baseline makers is the incoming data stream. A state machine switch in the 
correct state. The incoming picture header information is analyzed and is applied in the decoding 
process. All tables are dynamic.
Actual are this:
0xFFD8 Start of image
0xFFE0 App0 application segment
0xFFDB define quantization table 
0xFFC0 SOF0 Baseline DCT
0xFFC4 define huffman table
0xFFDA start of scan
0xFFD9 End of image
Interface:
entity huffman_decoder is
port(
clk :in std_logic;
--interface data input
wr :in std_logic;  --write
data_in : in unsigned (7 downto 0); --data jpeg stream input
wr_en : out std_logic:='1'; --write enable
--interface  data out
output_valid : buffer std_logic;      --use it as write signal in the follow IDCT
data_out : out signed (15 downto 0); --decoded and dequantized coefficient
next_eob : buffer std_logic:='0'; --the next data is the last coefficient of block
--all higher zigzag coeficients are zero
sop : out std_logic:='0'; --start of picture
eop : out std_logic:='0';        --end of picture
zrl : out unsigned (3 downto 0);    -- number of consecutive zeros before the next 
--coefficient
decoder_enable : in std_logic);
end huffman_decoder;
Implementation
The main part is a 32bit circular buffer (signal rot_buffer: unsigned(31 downto 0);) and inside this 
buffer is a shifted barrel. At the initialization the first value is stored at the highest address in the 
circular buffer. The next datas are stored in the lower addesses. The Barrel is at the highest address 
and decode the huffcode. The FSM sos_state control the process.
First sos_state decode:
The decoder decode the huffcode and shift the barrel as long the huffcode is. DC huffman table of 
the first component have to applicate. In this example it is 10 the huffcode and the corresponding 
code 6. The code is the length of the mantissa bits.
Second sos_state catch:
The amplitude value is token from barrel. 100100 is the value from data stream. Also the barrel is 
shifted to the next position.
Third sos_state post_catch:
Only a state that all value are valid.

Fourth and fifth  sos_state:
The huff table are two change two clocks are needed. For table change.
sixth sos_state:
The decoder decode the huffman code now with the AC huff table of the first component. The code 
is 1101 and has the length 4. Also in this step the values at the buffer addresss 0x1F..0x18 are 
invalid. Also in this step the next values from the input stream are loaded into the buffer.
In this timing diagram you can see only some clocks are needed in this implementation. This is 
important for high value streaming like video applications. 

first picture:
header information
• quantization tables
• huffman tables
Pixel information in the stream:
sop (start of picture)    goes high
switch to the valid