HIBI v.2 - An Interconnection for the Network-on-Chip Era
Erno Salminen, Vesa Lahtinen, Tero Kangas, Jouni Riihimäki,
Kimmo Kuusilinna, and Timo D. Hämäläinen
Tampere University of Technology, Institute of Digital and Computer Systems
P .O. Box 553, FIN-33101, Tampere, Finland
Tel: + 358-3-3115 4540, Fax: +358-3-3115 4575
Corresponding author: Erno Salminen
Abstract-This paper presents a ne twork-on-chip (NoC) architec-
ture scheme targeted for complex system-on-chip designs. The
proposed Heterogeneous IP Bl ock Interconnection v.2 (HIBI)
aims at maximum efficiency and energy saving per transmitted bit
combined to guaranteed quality-of -service (QoS) in transfers.
Other features include support fo r arbitrary topologies with sev-
eral clock domains, flexible scalablility in signalling and run time
reconfiguration of interconnect ion parameters. HIBI has been
implemented in VHDL and Syst emC and synthesized in 0.18 
CMOS technology with area co mparable to other NoC intercon-
nection wrappers. HIBI data transfers are shown to approach the
maximum theoretical performance for protocol efficiency.
Index Terms - High performance,  configurable, communication,
digital, design, distributed control, Vlsi
I.  INTRODUCTION
Network-on-chip (NoC) can be regarded as the third
wave of system-on-chip (SoC) designs after intellectual
property (IP) block-based [1][2] and platform-based [3]
methodologies. The third wave focuses on how to reuse not
only IP blocks and platforms but also on-chip
interconnections. This is a formidable challenge, since
contemporary SoCs, such as MoVa [4] and Viper [5],  have
very heterogeneous structure. In general, SoCs include
several different types of processors, memories and dozens
of IP blocks that have different interface signalling. In
addition, there are several clock domains that are not
necessarily synchronized and some of the blocks are from
time to time shut down for power saving. The overall
computation is not homogeneous as in traditional
multiprocessors running scientific algorithms and,
therefore, a symmetric interconnection topology may be
insufficient.  Quality-of-service (QoS) for on-chip data
transfers is a new demand that  originates from real-time
requirements in applications.
As a general principle, orthogonalization of concerns
[3][6] facilitates partitioning the design into manageable
subdesigns. For instance, se paration between computation
and communication helps to select an appropriate
interconnection in an application independent manner. This
principle forms the basis for automated design space
exploration [7].
Standardization efforts in clude a layered approach
based on IP interfaces, for example Virtual Component
Interface (VCI) [8] and Open Core Protocol (OCP) [9]. A
component called wrapper translates the IP block specific
communication operations to corresponding on-chip
network operations. Figure 1 illustrates the concept with a
HIBI network. 
 Interconnections, as a research topic, have well
established and long traditions originating from board level
multi-processor systems and networked multicomputers.
Interestingly, many topologies that were originally
intended for super computers [10][11][12] are now
proposed as backbones for SoCs. However, their original
form may lead to unexpected problems in SoC
environment. A regular and symmetric topology, such as a
mesh, fits well for dataflow type of processing with static
scheduling and allocation of tasks. Other types of
computation or unbalanced lo ads may lead to significant
overall inefficiency.
µm
Acknowledgments
This research work has been supported by the Graduate
School in Telecommunication Sy stem-on-Chip Integration
(TELESOC) and the Nokia Foundation. 
Agent
System 
initiator
IP
MasterVCI / 
OCP
Master
HIBI
wrapper
Agent
System 
target
IP
Slave
Slave
HIBI
wrapper
Agent
System 
initiator/target
IP
Master
Master
HIBI
wrapper
Slave
Slave
HIBI on-chip networkHIBI on-chip networkHIBI on -chip network
Figure 1. Utilizing VCI/OCP 