SOCGEN Project
Naming Guidelines
As designs continue to grow in size along with the size of the design team, it is mandatory that all code must 
written to adhere to name space guidelines. The days when a designer could simply pull names out of thin air 
are faster disappearing. Guidelines have  two functions. First they ensure that no two designers select the 
same name for different objects and have a name collision. The second function is to ensure that the chosen 
names are meaningful to all of the design team. It is quite common for designers to select names that only 
make sense to themselves and no one else on the team. 
Signal ,Port and Pad Names
Signals define the nodes inside of  a component and each node must have a unique name. That signal name 
becomes the port name when a node is ported up the hierarchy. The port names become the pad names at the 
top level.  All of these exist in the same name space along with other items such as instance names. 
Managing this name space is crucial.
There are two distinct groups that use these names. The IC design team is one group and it will use all three. 
The other group consists of  System designers,PCB designers, Board Test engineers etc.
They only access the chip via the pad names and never see the internal ones.  These two groups have 
incompatible objectives. The IC design team is dealing with millions of names and needs a naming scheme 
that produces long descriptive names that won't collide and conveys information about the signals function. 
The rest of the world is only dealing with a few hundred or thousand names. They also have their own 
naming requirements. These typically are:
• Short Names that fit on a schematic graphic symbol.  If you have 99 short names and 1 long one then 
you have a long column and wasted white space on your schematic. 
• Capital Letters.   They make a packed schematic readable. You don't want your board designers trying 
to guess if it's a 1 or a l. 
• ATE naming requirements.  Do you know what the IEEE 1149.1 pad naming rules are? If not then 
you shouldn't be selecting pad names. 
The guideline for selecting pad names is that the IC design team should not attempt to pick pad names based 
on the internal signal names.  They should first meet all of the PCA customers requirements without regard to 
what names are chosen for the internal signals.  Name collisions are avoided by ensuring that ALL pad 
names start with a capital letter and that all internal names  start with a small one. 
For internal signal and port names you must first find the four pieces of information that will uniquely 
identify every signal in the design. These are:
• Interface Name     You don't want 5 different ways to spell clock in a design.  Each  team must  agree 
on  common signal names and everyone must follow the rules. These are called standard interfaces. 
The team must create a document that lists all the standard interfaces  and their names. It is 
ESSENTIAL that once a standard is chosen then all signals covered by that standards MUST follow 
the naming rules and the no signals that are not covered by the standard are allowed to use its name.
• Sub_member         If the standard interface has more than one signal  then you must also define the 
names for each sub_member as part of the standard 
• ad hoc                    If a signal is not defined by a standard interface then an ad hoc signal can be 
created based on the designers insight. If a module has 2 or more signals with the same standard 
interface then a ad hoc field is needed to distinguish between them. 
• Driving Instance    This is the instance name that is driving the signal. Wired or tristate logic is not 
allowed. There will  be one and only one driver per node. 
You can create signal names by simply gathering this information and concatenating it into  a name but it is 
perfectly acceptable to drop any field(s) if they are not needed to uniquely identify a node.
For example a IC design