SOCGEN Project
The mission of the SOCGEN project is to provide a blueprint showing digital designers how to create a 
System_on_chip (SOC) by assembling  components created by a variety of sources. It will show how to 
create a component that can be reused and provides  a free opensourced tool set  that can be used to assemble 
and verify a design. It employs modern design for reuse techniques to reduce the waste and inefficiencies that 
is inherent in handcrafting a design
Principles for Reusable design
Plan ahead
You may start a design with the intent that it is only going to be used for one specific purpose only to find out 
later that other designers want to use it. Create all designs with the intent that they will be reused in ways that 
you haven't imagined and you won't have to scramble later.  
Maintain the design
Releasing a chip to production is not the end of the job. You must still continue to maintain the design. You 
cannot archive a chip data base into offline storage and simply put it on the shelf. Do you really think that 
you can pull it down 20 years later and recreate the chip? Bit Rot is real. Even if you can read the bits off the 
magtape that you used to use then you will find that you can no longer get the same version of the tools that 
you used   to build the chip. The original IC process will be long gone and the current ones have added new 
requirements that your code doesn't meet.
When you finish a chip you archive an exact copy of all the data and freeze that forever. Your design then 
continues to live on.  When you get a new version of a tool you rebuild and test  everything and fix problems. 
As new processes come online you retarget the design to use them. As component ip is reved you upgrade 
and run the test suite.
Then when your original product is winding down and someone wants a follow up product then you have a 
head start.
Design for the lowest common denominator
Everybody loves to use some quirky little feature of the design target to squeeze a little extra performance 
out of the system. But if you do then you are locked into that target and cannot easily reuse the design on a 
different target. Why do you think they put those features in the first place? Instead you should survey the 
field and only use the features that all target technologies can match
Design in a completely generic technology
Design is a two step process. First the design is created and verified in a completely generic behavioral RTL 
format and then converted into the target technology. It is tempting to try to save time be designing in the 
target technology but this will make it harder to reuse.
Automate Everything
Handcrafting a design file is a time consuming and error prone operation. Tasks that are preformed on every 
design should be done by a tool.  The designers job is to create the configuration files needed by the tools and 
let automation do all the work.
Do not keep duplicate copies of a file in the database
Doing so makes it difficult to ensure that bug fixes and enhancements created by one user can be made 
available to all users. Every file should have one and only one location in the database
Do not build  the design inside of an RCS database.
It is really hard to keep track of all the new files that you have added that you need to check into the Revision 
Control System  if they are buried by gigabytes of generated files from the build process. Use symbolic links 
to create a work area where generated files are kept outside the database.Never check a generated file in an 
RCS repository. They should only contain the minimal seed data needed to rebuild the entire design. It 
should never contain any files that were generated by the build process. 
Store files based on their source and not their use.
Are you creating a chip using IP from Joe's IP Emporium? Why not create a spot inside your chip database 
for Joes files? Because that is not planning ahead. Later if your lab starts another chip that