SOCGEN Project
Manifesto
The semiconductor industry is in the process of undergoing a complete metamorphosis that will change 
forever the way digital electronic products are designed. The last time this occurred was back in the 1990's 
when schematic capture was a popular tool for designing ICs. But designs grew to the point where you 
couldn't plop down a gate and and connect it fast enough to create and verify a net list in a reasonable amount 
of time. So schematic capture has been replaced in all but the simplest designs with a HDL/SYNTHESIS 
flow.
That happened about 15 years ago and despite constant predictions of the demise of Moore's Observation we 
now find ourselves back in the same situation, You cannot type fast enough to create and verify a net list in a 
reasonable amount of time.
The solution that is now emerging to meet this growing demand is Design For Reuse(DFR). This 
methodology recognizes that the vast majority of design work is simply a rehash of work that someone else 
has already done. If you could reuse and leverage preexisting code then the amount of new design work 
needed drops off dramatically.
The SOCGEN project was created to provide a free open-sourced Design for Reuse tool set for asic and fpga 
developers. It will also provide industry standard best practice guidelines that show how to create a reusable 
design as well as a series of IP modules and designs to demonstrate the proper way to make a design.
Everything in the SOCGEN project is released under GPL3 as free and open source. SOCGEN will partner 
with other opensource or free-to-use tools to form a complete embedded systems tool chain that includes IC 
design, PCB design, Firmware development and real time debugging. 
Why am I doing this?
Theres an old saying that everyone has at least one good novel in them. For an engineer it's at least one good 
open source project. I spent my career as a electrical engineer working for Hewlett-Packard. Nothing in my 
years in R+D could prepare me for what we had to do to create deep submicron asic designs. The chip sizes 
and complexities grew every year and it was a struggle to keep up with all the new processes. But I had spent 
several years working as a production engineer mostly bringing new products up the production ramp and the 
techniques used in manufacturing were exactly what were needed to design DeepSubMicron asics.
R+D engineers tend to work like ye olde Yankee craftsmen. They go into their shops and spend a lot of time 
handcrafting a design and it is beautiful when finished. But it also takes a lot of time and the demand is such 
that you will soon need every adult male in New England working in the shops to meet production quotas. 
It's time to part with the traditional ways and create a high volume manufacturing line for asics.That is the 
goal of Design for Reuse.
I was fortunate to work at HP in a design group that was doing bleeding edge development of design for 
reuse techniques. The Inkjet Peripheral group had a IC design team that spanned four divisions and a support 
operation. We did 2-4 asic designs a year and did this year after year after year. We designed families of 
chips doing one for low-end, high volume , one for high end, high performance and if the vintage chart called 
for it , one in the middle.
We designed platform asics. There were to many products to do one chip per product so the chip that went 
into an All-In_One printer scanner could also go into a Photo printer or a stand alone printer. The extra 
silicon needed to support unused functions was nothing compared to the cost savings from combining 
product volumes into a single part. Pin's on the other hand were precious. The pins needed to drive the 
scanner interface were multiplexed with the Photo card pins as well as GPIO pins. The code would configure 
the chip for whatever product it happened to find itself in.
We also did multi-Vendor designs. Our volumes were to high to only have a single source. 